431 Deliverable F
================
Due **2018-10-04** at 2 PM. Last Edited 2019-08-22 14:55:24

# General Instructions

This homework involves two parts: \[a\] submitting a project proposal
and \[b\] responding to the six questions described below. Be sure to
complete each part.

# Part 1: Project Proposal

As part of this deliverable, you will submit your project proposal.
[Instructions for the project proposal are at this
link](https://github.com/THOMASELOVE/2019-431/tree/master/PROJECT/PROPOSAL).

# Part 2 (Questions 1-6): Using Leek’s [Formula for Decoding Health News](http://fivethirtyeight.com/features/a-formula-for-decoding-health-news/)

Find a headline from the internet related to health or medicine that
describes the findings of a study published on January 1, 2016 or later.
Then find the study being referred to in PUBMED. Use the [formula for
updating your opinions about health news developed by Jeff
Leek](http://fivethirtyeight.com/features/a-formula-for-decoding-health-news/),
along with the abstract and full contents of the published study to
complete Questions 1-6.

# Question 1

Specify the URL where we can see the headline and news story describing
the findings of the study. Feel free to use `goo.gl`, `bit.ly` or a
related tool online to produce a shortened URL for this purpose. Specify
the reference completely, including the names of the author(s) of the
news story, and its full title, and source.

# Question 2

Specify a URL where we can see at least the abstract of the complete
study. Again, shortened URLs are fine. Give the complete reference to
the study, as well, including the authors, full title, journal name and
so forth.

## Question 3

Describe, in a few sentences, your original opinion (gut feeling)
related to the conclusions of the study as summarized in the headline
and news article, first in terms of a probability statement, and then
calculate the appropriate odds, remembering to convert statements about
probabilities to statements about odds. Provide some motivation for your
internal prior probability, describing your relevant personal
experiences or other factors that drove your gut feeling.

Remember, if X is an event, and Pr(X) is the probability that X occurs,
and odds(X) are the odds that X occurs, then

Pr(X) = odds(X) / \[1 + odds(X)\]

and

odds(X) = Pr(X) / (1 - Pr(X)).

## Question 4

Evaluate the study in terms of the six specifications [proposed by
Leek](http://fivethirtyeight.com/features/a-formula-for-decoding-health-news/)
when evaluating study support. Be sure to specify your conclusion about
**each** of the six specifications, and provide direct quotes and
summarize the evidence from the abstract or paper to address the issues
raised and justify your conclusions.

## Question 5

Incorporate the study support assessment into a Bayes’ Rule calculation
to obtain the final odds you should now be willing to give to the
headline, and specify this value in terms of a probability statement, as
well.

## Question 6

React to the final conclusion specified by this approach in a sentence
or two. How does your subjective posterior probability that the headline
is true match up with the formula’s conclusions? Do you feel that the
formulaic approach has yielded an appropriate conclusion for you in this
case? Why or why not?

# On Grading

Questions 1-6 (as a group) are graded on an 80 point scale.

Successfully submitting the proposal in a timely fashion is worth an
additional 20 points in the Deliverable F grading, making the maximum
total score 100 points.
